[DOCU-2413] and [DOCU-2447] Performance Testing Framework IA rework (#4210)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/understanding-kong/kong-performance-testing.md

---
title: Kong Gateway Performance Testing
content_type: explanation
---

The {{site.base_gateway}} codebase includes a performance testing framework. It allows Kong developers and users to evaluate the performance of Kong itself as well as 
bundled or custom plugins, and plot frame graphs to debug performance bottlenecks.
The framework collects RPS (request per second) and latencies of Kong processing the request
to represent performance metrics under different workloads.

The framework is implemented as an extension to Kong's integration test suite.

## Installation

The framework uses [busted](https://olivinelabs.com/busted/) and some
Lua development dependencies of Kong. To set up the environment,
run `make dev` on your Kong repository to install all Lua dependencies.

## Usage

### Basic usage

> Install Lua development dependencies of Kong being installed and invoke each test file with `busted`. The following runs the simple RPS and latency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Lua development dependencies of Kong being installed and invoke each test file with `busted`. The following runs the RPS and latency
```

> test using `docker` driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test using the`docker` driver.
```

```shell
PERF_TEST_USE_DAILY_IMAGE=true PERF_TEST_VERSIONS=git:master,git:perf/your-other-branch bin/busted -o gtest spec/04-perf/01-rps/01-simple_spec.lua
```

> User can also run the performance test framework inside a Kong container from scratch, from other development tools
> like [gojira](https://github.com/kong/gojira) or [Pongo](https://github.com/kong/kong-pongo), if they don't have development environment.
> Note to use the `docker` driver inside a container, the Docker daemon socket `/var/run/docker.sock` needs to be mounted inside the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I learned last week that we don't want to steer customers towards Gojira as a solution.

### Terraform managed instances

> By default, terraform doesn't teardown instances after each test in `lazy_teardown`; this allows user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, terraform doesn't teardown instances after each test in `lazy_teardown`; allowing users
```

to run multiple tests consecutively without rebuilding the infrastructure each time.

> This behaviour can be changed by setting `PERF_TEST_TEARDOWN_ALL` environment variable to true. User can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behaviour can be changed by setting the `PERF_TEST_TEARDOWN_ALL` environment variable to true. Users can
```

also manually teardown the infrastructure by running:

```
PERF_TEST_TEARDOWN_ALL=1 PERF_TEST_DRIVER=terraform PERF_TEST_TERRAFORM_PROVIDER=your-provider bin/busted -o gtest -t single spec/04-perf/99-teardown/
```

### AWS

> When using `terraform` driver and `aws-ec2` as provider, AWS credentials can be provided by environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `terraform` driver and `aws-ec2` as the provider, AWS credentials can be provided using environment variables.
```

> It's common to pass `AWS_PROFILE` to point a stored AWS credentials profile, or `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's common to pass the `AWS_PROFILE` variable to point to a stored AWS credentials profile, or `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and
```

> `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` to use credential directly. Please refer to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` to use credentials directly. Please refer to the
```

[Terraform AWS provider document](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration)
for further information.

### Charts

Charts are not rendered by default. There's a reference implementation to draw graphs on all JSON
data stored in the `output` directory. Use the following commands to draw graphs:

```shell
cwd=$(pwd)
cd spec/helpers/perf/charts/
pip install -r requirements.txt
for i in $(ls ${cwd}/output/*.data.json); do
  python ./charts.py $i -o "${cwd}/output/"
done
```

## Drivers

Three "drivers" are implemented depending on different environments, accuracy
requirements, and setup complexity.

| Driver   | Test between git commits | Test between binary releases | Flame Graph | Test unreleased version    |
|----------|--------------------------|------------------------------|------------|----------------------------|

> | docker   | yes                      | yes                          |            | yes (`use_daily_image` = true) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Docker   | yes                      | yes                          |            | yes (`use_daily_image` = true) |
```

> |terraform | yes                      | yes                          | yes        | yes (`use_daily_image` = true) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Terraform | yes                      | yes                          | yes        | yes (`use_daily_image` = true) |
```

You must install the following Lua development dependencies to use either of the drivers:

> - **docker** Driver is solely based on Docker images. It's the most convenient driver to setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Docker** Driver is based on Docker images.
```

> as it requires less dependencies. But it may also be influenced by other local programs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It requires fewer dependencies.
```

> and Docker network performance. And it doesn't support FlameGraph generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And it doesn't support FlameGraph generation.
```

> - **terraform** Driver runs in remote VM or bare metal machine. It's most accurate,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **terraform** Driver runs in a remote VM or on a bare metal machine. It's most accurate,
```

but it requires Terraform knowledge to operate and setup.

    * Requires the [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) binary be installed.
    * Requires git binary if testing between git commits. When testing between git commits,
    the framework assumes the current directory is Kong's repo. It will stash your working

>     directory and remove the stash after the test is finished. When using the docker or Terraform driver,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    directory and remove the stash after the test is finished. When using the Docker or Terraform driver,
```

    the framework derives the base version of each commit and uses the matching Docker image or

>     Kong binary package and puts local source code inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Kong binary package and puts the local source code inside.
```

## Workflow

> Like Kong's integration tests, the performance test is written in Lua. Several

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like Kong's integration tests, the performance test is written in Lua. Several
```
```suggestion
Multiple
```

      })

      local upstream_uri = perf.start_worker([[
      location = /test {
        return 200;
      }
      ]])

      local service = bp.services:insert {
        url = upstream_uri .. "/test",
      }

      bp.routes:insert {
        paths = { "/s1-r1" },
        service = service,
        strip_path = true,
      }
    end)

    before_each(function()
      perf.start_kong({
        --kong configs
      })
    end)

    after_each(function()
      perf.stop_kong()
    end)

    lazy_teardown(function()
      perf.teardown()
    end)

    it("#single_route", function()
      local results = {}
      for i=1,3 do
        perf.start_load({
          path = "/s1-r1",
          connections = 1000,
          threads = 5,
          duration = 10,
        })

        ngx.sleep(10)

        local result = assert(perf.wait_result())

        print(("### Result for Kong %s (run %d):\n%s"):format(version, i, result))
        results[i] = result
      end

      print(("### Combined result for Kong %s:\n%s"):format(version, assert(perf.combine_results(results))))

      perf.save_error_log("output/" .. version:gsub("[:/]", "#") .. "-single_route.log")
    end)
  end)
end
```

> The test can be run as a normal busted-based test. Run it with `bin/busted path/to/this_file_spec.lua`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test can be run as a normal Busted test, using `bin/busted path/to/this_file_spec.lua`.
```
